---
title: Assignment 2, Theories of Ageing 2020
date: 2020-10-05
author:
  - name: Joakim Frögren
    email: joakim.frogren@med.lu.se
--- 

## Description of thesis work
The overarching aim of my PhD project is to gain a better understanding of the involvement of representatives of senior citizens and certain professions in research on ageing and health. To *involve* someone in research in this context refers to the participants being active partners in the process and not just study objects. The involvement of citizens and professionals in research has its roots in the intertwined quest to enhance democracy and adequately understand and manage issues and problems characterized by complexity and uncertainty [@hronszky2005]. Some studies indicate that such involvement leads to the research having an increased relevance and greater impact as well as improved health outcomes [@gradinger2015]. However, more knowledge is needed related to which methods to use in order to successfully convert expressed concerns and ideas into proper research questions ; how to appropriately recruit [@gradinger2015] and involve representatives of citizens and professions in the data collection [@priestley2010] and in the analysis of the findings [@cotterell2012]. Furthermore, studies have indicated that the involvement of citizens entails risks of excluding vulnerable groups [@gradinger2015] and reproducing existing inequalities rather than addressing them [@buffel2015]. Through four sub-studies employing various approaches of involvement, this PhD project strives to acquire new knowledge in relation to these knowledge gaps. Fundamental to the various methodological knowledge gaps mentioned here is the question of what motivates citizens and professionals to be actively involved in research and similarly what constitutes the obstacles. This will be explored both through a large-scale survey as well as through qualitative interviews in several studies. Furthermore, the PhD project focuses on what outcomes such efforts could bring (in terms of for example learning outcomes and knowledge contributions) and what the potential pitfalls and limitations are. Three of the sub-studies (II-IV) engages 60+ citizens whilst one of the sub-studies (I) engages representatives of various professions with an expertise related to housing and ageing.

## How the PhD project relates to ageing
The PhD project relates to ageing in the sense that ageing and health research constitutes the context in which the involvement of the representatives occur. Furthermore, the representatives that the researchers in this case strive to involve are expected to have a certain knowledge or experience (expertise) that relates to ageing and health issues. As mentioned above in three out of four of the sub-studies 60+ citizens will be engaged which means that the PhD project will have a stronger emphasis on involving this age group compared to representatives of professions.

## Theories related to age and ageing used in PhD thesis
The PhD project is framed by two theories linked to ageing. The first one is is the theory of **Epistemic injustice** [@fricker2007] and the second one is the distinction between **contingent** and **existential limitations** in relation to ageing [@baars2014].

### Epistemic injustice
**Epistemic injustice** [@fricker2007] is a theory formulated by the philosopher Miranda Fricker. It refers to "wrong done to an individual specifically in their capacity as a knower" [@fricker2007, p. 1]. The injustice in question is a result of certain people being excluded in whole or in part from the construction of knowledge even though they have valid reasons to contribute.

Epistemic injustice is not a theory deriving from or specific to ageing research. Rather, it is originally linked to the exclusion of individuals due to their gender or ethnicity. However, considering that ageism in addition to sexism and racism is demonstrably prevalent in our times, the theory is here seen as having a potential of being applicable even to this context where age is a key factor. Within the frames of this PhD project, the theory is used as a way of ascertaining the extent to which (and means through which) citizens (and in particular senior citizens) and professionals experience that their knowledge is not sufficiently taken into account by researchers in ageing and health.

Fricker argues that there are two subcategories of epistemic injustice: ‘testimonial injustice’ and ‘hermeneutical injustice’. The former is about the credibility of a speaker’s testimony. Normally when a person listens to another person’s statement, the listener makes an assessment of the credibility of the speaker and what has been uttered  [@goldberg2013]. Becoming a victim of ‘testimonial injustice’ occurs in cases where the listener attributes too little credibility to a speaker’s testimony in relation to what is justifiable in the situation. The approach can be linked to prejudice(s). This kind of injustice is epistemic in nature because it takes a position on the speaker based on the knowledge he or she is considered to possess. However, it is important to mention that the theory does not in any way claim that all knowledge is equally important regardless of context. The kind of knowledge that it speaks of here is knowledge that is clearly relevant in a certain context and thus for justifiable reasons ought to be taken into account, but which is still completely or partially ignored.

‘Hermeneutical injustice’ is about injustice in relation to how people interpret their lives and what they experience. It occurs when certain individuals’ experiences are not well understood by themselves or by others because their experience does not fit into any pre-defined concept that is known to them or to others. This kind of injustice is, according to Fricker, rooted in the fact that these individuals belong to a certain group that has historically been excluded from activities - such as research or journalism - with the power to shape which concepts are being constructed, brought into the limelight and established.

Epistemic injustice is not only a democratic issue, but it also has the consequence that the knowledge of a certain phenomenon is limited because some of those who possess relevant knowledge are not able to speak on equal terms as others. Given that many of the problems found in ageing and health today are of a social nature and are characterized by a complexity and uncertainty, it is important that all relevant knowledge and experience from all key actors is taken into account. Thus, it is of the utmost importance as a researcher to gain an understanding of whether and in what ways citizens (and in particular senior citizens) and professionals experience that the knowledge and experience they possess is not taken into account enough. If not, the understanding of these problems and the solutions that may be launched risks ignoring relevant aspects and thus leading to the production of knowledge, products and services that do not prove to be sustainable or put into use because they are considered to be of limited relevance.


### Contingent and existential ageing
The second theory related to ageing used in this PhD project is not a fully developed theory but rather better described as a conceptual division. It derives from critical and humanistic gerontology and it is the distinction between **contingent** and **existential limitations** in relation to ageing [@baars2014]. Contingent limitations here refer to obstacles that are of a social nature and that can be remedied, e.g. poor housing conditions, insufficient care, social isolation, starvation or ageism. Existential limitations, on the other hand, refer to limitations that are inevitable results of senescing and finitude. However, it should be pointed out here that what at a certain historical time has been considered an existential limitation, over time may constitute a contingent limitation. Examples of this is weakened vision and the invention of glasses.

There is a risk that researchers do not take this division into account, but merely pass on the existential limitations to the final stage of life and argue that life up to that time is primarily characterized by contingent limitations that are possible to measure, understand and (at least to some extent) remedy. An example of this is that the discourse on 'existential loneliness' in aging research is only linked to people who are in the final stages of life when it can be argued that such loneliness can be found to varying degrees throughout life.

However, it is not certain that citizens and professionals share researchers' views, but based on their values ​​and experiences make other assessments and have different priorities than researchers when it e.g. applies to developing meaningful ways of dealing with situations in life that cannot be controlled. According to Baars and Phillipson [-@baars2014], late modern cultures of ageing have difficulty acknowledging and *dignifying* limitations that cannot be overcome but must be respectfully and creatively integrated in ways of living. Actively involving citizens and professionals in research on ageing and health can therefore potentially be a fruitful way to reach knowledge about how this can be done as well as what kind of issues research should prioritize and how a sensitive dialogue between the research world and society's citizens and professionals can take shape. Several of the doctoral project's sub-studies include dialogues (in the form of interviews, focus groups, research circles) and it is mainly through these that knowledge about this is intended to be achieved.

## Concluding remarks about the course 'Theories of Ageing'

The course in Theories of Ageing has expanded my understanding of theories and how they can be used in research. It has also made me realize that there is a great variety of specializations in gerontology. I chose to pick up theories outside the textbook because, despite the rich flora of theories there, I could not identify any theory that could be accurately linked to my specific research area and doctoral project. In this way, the course has also made me realize with greater emphasis than before that my focus and my doctoral project is not so easily placed in an ageing research discourse but has a focus that is a bit on the side. The theories I finally found that I could relate to my doctoral project originated from an humanistic approach to  gerontology, which made me realize that it is probably within this field and not in any of the other directions that were highlighted within the course that my research belongs. 

## References
