---
title: "Research group meeting"
date: 2020-10-26T15:06:03+01:00
draft: true
---

### RQ20
SI informed about the assessment of the research at Lund University called *Research Quality 20* [(RQ20)](https://web.archive.org/web/20201130083902/https://rq20.blogg.lu.se/rq20-pa-svenska/), and the group 7 that she has led within that efforts. She described that the group had found it hard to use the tool as it was formulated as a means to actually evaluate the research quality since it was too general. The people in group 7 anyway filled in the three required bullet points and send it in.

#### The effect of Covid-19 on work environment
SE described that it is important to reply to invitations and let DL or SE know if you plan to attend the meeting in person or online since if it is a big meeting they need to rent a room and order fika.

### Buying our own big screen for distant calls
The service center has said that we use the big screen a lot compared to other research groups and suggested us to buy our own screen. After discussion we decided that we will suggest the service center to buy an extra screen if they think that one screen is not enough since there are some issues with buying our screen.

### Ergonomic equipment
According to the ergonomist, a few persons in the group need new chairs and 'terminalglasögon'. Susanne informed what to do to get them. MN's grey desk chair is missing.

### LUCRIS update
* LUCRIS workshops on two occasions  November 20 and November 26 (similar to the one provided by the library) - 20 people have signed up so far.
* New version of LUCRIS wil be released in the first half of 2021. Right now in a beta version that Dan is trying out.

